it's time to get your B2B marketing game
on point
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host of the top 10
B2B marketing podcast business great
show and to check out my free playbooks
podcasts email tips and whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to samdunning.org
so the rise of AI and Tech moving super
fast it's imperative that you stay sharp
and on top of your B2B marketing game so
you can drive maximum qualified leads
make impact and drive solid revenue for
your business I'm gonna share seven
practical steps that I use so you can
keep sharp on your B2B marketing game
Let's Dive In
foreign
so my first tip is to host your own
podcast where you interview
experts practitioners leaders in the
field so you can stay fresh and sharp on
topics so as an example I host business
growth show B2B marketing and demand
generation podcast each and every week
I'll interview marketing leaders
practitioners and experts on their area
of expertise with a dedicated focused
topic around what they know best we tend
to do one a week with a guest and then
we'll sometimes do a solo episode like
this on a specific topic and that really
helps me stay up to date on what's
working in the field as these are most
of the time vp's marketing Chief
marketing offices or similar that are
actually out there doing the work
getting results for their company so I
can learn tips from them and likewise
share with all you guys on the video and
the audio podcast we've got plenty of
past episodes on the YouTube channel and
the audio podcast on setting up a
podcast so die dive into those and get
stuck in
tip two is to listen to Industry leading
podcasts so I found podcasts to be an
absolute hack especially if I'm doing
things like commuting driving the car
doing the dishes or exercising instead
of sticking on the radio I can whack on
a podcast get some new thoughts get some
new ideas give me some inspiration for
content for media for podcast episodes
for LinkedIn posts and much much more
two that I love to tune into most weeks
are everyone hates marketers by Louis
Grenier Louie's got some real
controversial opinions around marketing
and he interviews some real experts not
just in marketing but in other fields as
well so you can get real ideas he really
grills his guests so you get super
detailed insights that are practical and
actionable so everyone hates marketers
I'd recommend giving that a listen
that's entertaining and useful and
educational the other one is confessions
or B2B marketed by Tom Hunt again Tom
interviews experts in the field and
quite often gives case studies either
solo episodes and guest episodes on how
they've achieved certain results how
they've grown business how they've grown
Revenue so those two as well as my own
podcasts business Grove show are well
worth a listened up your B2B game
in at three we've got running marketing
experiments and this can be a superpower
for testing out new tactics channels
strategies and in most case your
competitors probably aren't running that
many experiments so it's an awesome way
to actually get ahead of the competition
I recommend going in with a hypothesis
I.E what impact you think the experiment
is going to bring to the table whether
that's improving traffic improving leads
improving views downloads Impressions
whatever metrics are relevant setting
aside a fixed timeline two months three
months six months eight months 12 months
whatever and then closely measuring the
results and impact that it brings
and then after the timeline is up
measuring whether the results were worth
scaling up and ramping up if yes
brilliant do so if not at least you've
learned from it you've given it a fair
test you move on to the next experiment
some ones I've recently ran for web
choice or putting out dedicated videos
for Pages we're trying to rank
so in this case I did one for B2B SEO
company because we were frustrated that
wasn't ranking page one so I made a
dedicated YouTube video embedded that at
the top of the page the advantage of
doing that is that on the Google search
results you can actually improve your
click-through rates as sometimes the
video can show up as a thumbnail next to
your organic search results so it can
whack up your click-throughs and also
there's a video section sometimes lower
down in the search results you can
actually get two listings for the price
of one another thing I did
another experiment I ran was actually
putting FAQs at the bottom of the pages
but many sites just have generic FAQs I
was stealing questions I'd get on sales
calls from prospects and customers and
quite literally addressing those so how
much does it cost why should I do it
isn't Google ads cheaper what do I need
before investing in SEO once I
implemented both these tactics that none
of the competitors was competitors were
actually running then a few weeks later
we managed to get page one position one
for B2B SEO company in the UK and EU one
other experiment I've been running is
cold cooling to Ideal client profiles
leading with the problems we fix
and the impact they can have and that's
also been something exciting I'm going
to run in a future podcast episode so
yeah consider experiments and giving
those a try
and at four we've got a very simple one
and that is following leaders
practitioners and experts on LinkedIn so
I do this I probably spend way too much
time compared to what I should scrolling
the LinkedIn feed but with that said I
pick up ideas almost daily by following
Founders I follow marketing leaders
practitioners I follow sales leaders I
follow entrepreneurs and Business
Leaders all kinds of B2B pros and each
day I'll see their stories their tips
their ideas their case studies in the
feed it will give me inspiration it'll
give me new ideas it'll give me thoughts
that I can rework for my own posts that
go out to my network on LinkedIn so yeah
linkedin's a super powerful tool to
learn from experts position yourself as
the expert
and also build up your own network and
acquire inbound leads if you are posting
and contributing to LinkedIn regularly
tip 5 is reading or listening to audio
books but also getting outside of
marketing so listening or reading on
entrepreneurship business or even sales
so as an example I recently re-read Gap
selling and I'm a super slow a painfully
slow reader so I use audio books when
I'm driving doing the dishes gym
whatever it may be for example Gap
selling is useful for marketers because
it talks about where the prospect is now
and the gap between where they need to
get to it talks about problems
leveraging the impact of problems
talking about what is the root cause
behind them and then leveraging that on
the gaps or where they actually want to
get to their current state their desired
State their future state
and using that in your sales process but
also within your messaging as a marketer
that can be super powerful for
understanding problems impact of
problems root causes for ads website
copy media that you produce and put out
and more so yeah there's always stuff to
learn when it comes to sales business
entrepreneurship that can really play in
to your marketing game
thank you
and then at six we've got networking
with other marketers Founders people in
or out of your industry that could be on
LinkedIn that could be in a slack group
that could be in a community Channel it
could be face to face it could be
industry events it could be on Zoom chat
could be meeting for coffee breakfast
whatever so as an example this might
sound like a bit of a weird one but I'm
actually friends with a bunch of
competitor agencies in the US UK and EU
and I'll quite openly share ideas with
them whether that's posts that are
working and Performing well on LinkedIn
podcasts that are doing well new
channels I'm trying out whether that's
digital marketing offline or even cold
calling whatever I'm experimenting with
at the time and I've found that when I'm
open like that they'll share ideas too
we'll sometimes jump on calls share kind
of tips thoughts insights on the
industries that's working well and it's
a really great way to network with
others learn from them I've even found
that this can build and strike up some
referral agreements so you can actually
end up and work off the back of it so
not only does it sharpen your skills but
it can open up new business Avenues
step seven we've got running sales calls
so myself I run a bunch of sales calls
for our web and SEO agency consultancy
work and the reason that I do that is so
I can stay fresh current up to date with
problems our actual prospects and Target
clients are facing so I can know their
frustrations their pain points know
what's up to date and actually leverage
that when it comes to our marketing
messaging when I'm creating videos when
I'm creating podcasts when I'm drafting
up posts on LinkedIn to make sure the
real problems I'm talking about are
resonating with our ideal client profile
I can understand the key jobs that our
prospects and customers want to get done
and I can stay fresh and up to date on
their goals their motivations so all of
this can resonate throughout our
marketing messaging our ads our website
copy the media the podcast and all the
material that we put out so we can stay
up to date on what they actually care
about
and lastly as a bonus if you're anything
like me there's still plenty to learn
and planning to improve upon so from
these seven steps that I've shared I
recommend just picking one or maybe two
to begin with so maybe it's the podcast
maybe it's running experiments you run
that for a certain period of time you
get comfortable with it you get the
results from it and then you ramp up the
other steps that I've shared and maybe
some of your own and there you have it I
hope you found these tips on keeping
your B2B marketing game fresh and on
point useful if you're on Apple podcast
your feedback as a rating and review is
very much appreciated or if you're on
YouTube a subscribe goes a really long
way and for more free resources
playbooks podcasts or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to samdunning.org